---
layout: post
title:  "Our Story"
date:   2016-05-16 18:00:00 -0600
categories: blog
---

On September 12, 2015, my fiance and I adopted two cats from the Adair County Humane Society; Alexander and Ezio. Despite Alexander being Siamese and Ezio a black and white "tuxedo" cat, they were from the same litter of four.

We took them home to meet their sister, Madeline, our Labrador Heeler puppy. The three of them formed a bond right away and everyone was happy. Alexander loved playing with his toys and snuggling with his siblings.

In the days leading up to October 24, 2015, Alexander had been acting strange. He wasn't eager to play like usual and he spent all day laying in one place. He had lost a lot of weight as well. After he fell off of a chair and did not attempt to move at all afterwards, we decided that it was time to take him to the vet. It was late at night, and our only option was half an hour away. My fiance, a friend, Alexander, and I eventually arrived and the doctor started examining him.

Alexander passed away that night.

The doctor told us that Alexander had feline infectious peritonitis (FIP), a strain of feline coronavirus. There is no treatment or cure for FIP, but it can be identified in a blood test. If a cat carries the virus, and it takes effect, there is nothing that can be done.

We had Ezio tested and he carries the virus, as does at least one of his siblings from the Humane Society. FIP is airborn and foodborn, which makes it easy for the virus to spread in locations such as an animal shelter.

We spoke with the folks at the Adair County Humane Society and they told us that they don't have enough funding to test cats for FIP. That is when my fiance had the idea to start Kitten Cause. We want to help the Humane Society so that people who adopt will not have to suffer the same trauma that we did after losing Alexander.